Hail [FIRSTNAME],
 
Yes it is that time of year again!!  What an exciting election year it will be!
 
We are now accepting nominations for [troth-elections:offices]!

Please note that one of the High Rede positions will be a one-year term, and will be given to the person with the fourth-highest number of votes.

The person elected to Steer will be completing the two remaining years of the current Steer term.

To nominate someone both you and the person nominated need to be Full Members.  You may nominate by replying to this email or going to [troth-elections:nom-url].  Nominations will close on [troth-elections:nom-date].

All candidates need to accept their nominations by [troth-elections:nom-accept-date] and have their Candidate Statements sent to the elections officer by [troth-elections:nom-bio-date].

Below are the definitions of Full Member and the requirements for being elected to [troth-elections:offices-or]. 

Wassail,
[troth-elections:eo-name]
[troth-elections:eo-email]


From the Troth By-Laws: 

4.2.2. Full Members

Full Members are those persons who have remained members in good standing, as defined above, for at least one year. Full Members whose memberships have lapsed for more than three months shall revert to New member status if they reapply for membership, and not be recognized as Full Members again until their membership has been reinstated for at least six months.

Family memberships include up to two voting members, as well as any number of non-voting members, all of whom must share the same mailing address. When a Family membership is purchased, the person purchasing the membership designates who the voting members are.

Full Members may vote in Corporate elections if they are at least 18 years of age.

4.2.3. Lifetime Members 

Lifetime members are Full Members who have contributed a donation of at least $500 to The Troth, or who are awarded a Lifetime membership by two-thirds vote of the High Rede to honor exceptionally meritorious service to The Troth. Lifetime memberships are non-refundable.

A Lifetime member may resign that membership at any time. An awarded Lifetime membership may be terminated by the High Rede for disciplinary reasons if necessary. A purchased Lifetime membership may be terminated by the High Rede for disciplinary reasons, if necessary, and a prorated refund calculated by the purchase price less the number of issues received will be returned to the purchaser.

Lifetime members shall have their names listed in each issue of The Troth's regular journal, and may receive other benefits as the High Rede may decide. At the discretion of the High Rede or the Lifetime member, a Lifetime membership may be changed to a lifetime subscription to The Troth's regular journal.

Lifetime members are subject to the same voting and office-holding criteria as Full Members.
4.3. Incarcerated Members 

Full Members currently incarcerated in correctional institutions shall have the right to vote. Incarcerated members may not hold any Corporate office, and may only participate in those programs that the Rede designates by a majority vote to be open to them.

5.1 The High Rede 

Management of the corporation is vested in a Board of Directors, which shall be formally known as the High Rede. The High Rede shall be the chief policy-making body of the corporation. Except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, the High Rede shall appoint Executive Officers and Operating Officers, ensure fair election of new members of the High Rede when vacancies occur, and adopt and amend these Bylaws as necessary. The High Rede may remove Executive Officers, Officers, and Clergy, and may revoke or deny membership, according to such procedures as it may establish, if it determines, in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the corporation and the community it creates.

5.1.1 Composition 

The High Rede shall have between three and nine members, including the Steer. The actual number at a given time shall be decided by the High Rede, where a smaller High Rede may be appropriate for a smaller corporate membership.

5.1.2 Election 

Members of the High Rede shall be elected by the Full Members of the Corporation.

One third (1/3) of the members of the High Rede shall be elected each year, according to procedures approved by the High Rede, published to the membership, and administered by the Elections Officer, to serve terms of three years, beginning at Trothmoot of the year in which they are elected. If a member dies in office or resigns, a successor shall be elected to fill the remainder of the departing member's term. If the number of members is not divisible by three, one less than one third of the members may be elected during some years. If the High Rede decides to grow or shrink its size, no less than one or more than three positions may be offered to vote in a given year. The goal of these rules is to ensure that the High Rede is continually populated by a majority of experienced members.

When needed, the Rede may suspend the limitations on maximum and minimum number of slots elected in an election, provided the following are both true:

1) No Rede member serves a term of longer than three years without being re-elected;

AND

2) The motion to invoke this clause is approved by both the Steer and a minimum of 2/3 (two-thirds) of the seated Rede Members.

Any Full member may nominate one or more persons as candidates for the High Rede. Such candidates must have been Full Members of the Corporation for at least a full year preceding nomination.

The medium for High Rede Elections shall be determined by the Rede. A medium can included mail, email, or other appropriate means. The Corporation shall not be required to provide notice of or hold an annual meeting of the members for purposes of voting. In the election of members of the High Rede, members may not cumulate their votes by casting more than one vote for a single candidate. Any member wishing to vote by proxy must sign and date his/her proxy authorizing another Full Member to vote in his/her stead not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to the date on which ballots must be received by the Corporation. The signed and dated original of the proxy must accompany any ballot sent to the Corporation which is cast under authority of such proxy.

5.1.3 Meetings

The members of the High Rede shall meet at least quarterly via face-to-face meetings or any medium appropriate to conduct Corporate business. At the end of each quarter, the Scribe shall prepare and submit to the Rede a summary of decisions and policies approved by the High Rede. This report shall be considered the official minutes of the administration, be published in the operating journal, and made available to all Corporate members.

Definitions: For the purpose of meetings, the Total Number of the Rede shall include all members of the High Rede who are in office at the time the Meeting starts, plus the Steer who is in office at the time the Meeting starts. If held in person, the Number Present shall be the portion of the Total Number of the Rede who attend the meeting. If held online, the Number Present shall be the portion of the Total Number of the Rede who communicate that they are present.

For a meeting to be valid for the purpose of passing motions or any taking actions, the Number Present must be greater than half of the Total Number of the Rede.

For any motion to pass in any meeting, it must receive votes in favor from greater than half of the Total Number of the Rede. The Rede may set higher thresholds for passage of specific measures, but no measure shall be enacted which does not have the support of an absolute majority of the Total Number of the Rede.

An annual gathering of the Corporation, designated as "Trothmoot," shall be held during the month of June at a site agreed upon by an act of the High Rede. Attending this gathering shall be a requirement of all High Rede members. At this meeting, the High Rede members shall meet privately among themselves, and shall hold a business meeting open to all attendees of the gathering, where they shall report to the membership on the state of the Corporation, and where policies and procedures may be proposed and discussed.

A quorum of High Rede members is half the size of the current High Rede, rounded up. A quorum is necessary to conduct business.

For a proposition to be considered passed or adopted by the High Rede, it must receive votes in favor of the proposition from a majority of the full High Rede, unless a greater number is required by the Articles of Incorporation or the Bylaws. The full High Rede shall be defined as all Rede members currently serving in office. Votes may be cast in person, via approved electronic means, or via proxy. All proxies must be in writing, signed and dated by the Rede members executing them, and their period of validity may not exceed three months. Any proxy may be revoked by providing written notice to the Steer and the person to whom the proxy was given. Proxies may only be given to current members of the High Rede.

As a member of the High Rede, the Steer may introduce motions, second motions, and vote on motions. In the event that there is a tie on a motion, the motion fails by default.

Any meeting shall end when either a majority or the Rede votes to adjourn, or the quarter ends. The Rede may choose to postpone or to table any items or to refer them to committees or individuals during the meeting. Any items that remain unresolved at the end of the meeting will automatically be added to the Old Business for the next meeting.

The President of the Corporation shall also and primarily be referred to as the Steer.

5.2.1.1 Duties 

The Steer shall be the chairman of meetings of the High Rede. If the Steer is unable or unwilling to perform this duty, then the Associate Steer (see below) shall be the chairman of meetings of the High Rede until the situation with the Steer is resolved. If both the Steer and Associate Steer are unable or unwilling to perform this duty, then the current member of the High Rede who has served longest in that office shall perform this duty until the situation with the Steer and Associate Steer is resolved. If there are multiple current members of the High Rede who have served longest in that office, then the one who has served the longest and has the greatest personal age shall perform that duty until the situation with the Steer and Associate Steer is resolved. The manner of resolution may depend on whether the Steer and/or Associate Steer is/are dead, disabled, unable to communicate, unwilling to cooperate, or resigned from office. The High Rede shall document and adopt formal procedures for dealing with these different situations.

The Steer oversees the general administration of the Corporation. The Steer convenes and presides over the communications and meetings of the High Rede, and the public business meeting at the annual Trothmoot. The Steer shall retain possession of the official minutes of the meetings and actions of the High Rede. The Steer shall be responsible for planning and management of Trothmoot, although this task may be delegated. The Steer shall be responsible for formally convening Trothmoot, although this task may be delegated. An outgoing Steer shall be responsible for the Trothmoot planned during the last year of his or her term.

5.2.1.2 Election

The Steer shall be elected by the High Rede at Trothmoot following an advisory vote consistent with those adopted for the election of Rede members, and results shall be announced to the membership in the operating journal.

5.2.1.3 Term

The Steer shall serve a term of three years, beginning at Trothmoot of the year in which s/he is elected, and may be reelected.
